---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-note-icon":"stone","dg-created":"2023-06-21T01:10:00+08:00","dg-updated":"2023-06-21T01:10:00+08:00","tags":["socrates","philosophers"],"dg-path":"阅读/苏格拉底.md","permalink":"/阅读/苏格拉底/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"stone","created":"2023-06-21T01:10:00+08:00","updated":"2023-06-21T01:10:00+08:00"}
---

#### Brief Introduction
470 BC-399 BC  
  
Indefatigable search of Greek philosopher **Socrates** for ethical knowledge challenged conventional mores and led to his trial and execution on charges of impiety and corrupting the youth; although he wrote nothing, the dialogues of [[柏拉图\|柏拉图]], his greatest pupil, capture his method of question and answer.  
  
People consider this inscrutable individual enigma in his lifetime of the handful who forever changed conception of thought. They vigorously dispute most of our second-hand information, but his mythic death at the hands of the democracy nevertheless founded the academic discipline, and he influenced in every age. Because they widely consider his paradigmatic life more generally, the admiration and emulation, normally reserved for Jesus or [Buddha](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/2167493.Buddha "Buddha"), founders of religious sects, strangely encumbered Socrates, who, convicted on irreverence toward the gods, tried so hard to make other persons to think on their own. Many other persons found him so certainly impressive despite his strange appearance, personality, behavior, and views.  
  
People generally refer to the whole contested issue, the so thorny difficulty of distinguishing the historical person from his image in the authors of the texts and moreover scores of later interpreters, as the Socratic problem. Each age, each intellectual turn, produces an image of its own. No less true now that, “The ‘real’ Socrates we have not: what we have is a set of interpretations each of which represents a ‘theoretically possible’ Socrates,” as [Cornelia de Vogel](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/26840440.Cornelia_de_Vogel "Cornelia de Vogel") put. In fact, model of [Gregory Vlastos](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/246524.Gregory_Vlastos "Gregory Vlastos"), a new standard analytic paradigm for interpreting Socrates, held sway until the mid 1990s. Socrates, the figure, really fundamentally dominates any virtually any interpretation.

#### Famous Quotes

- “If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer; even when you get exactly what you want, you still suffer because you can't hold on to it forever. Your mind is your predicament. It wants to be free of change. Free of pain, free of the obligations of life and death. But change is law and no amount of pretending will alter that reality.”

- “The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.”

- “The unexamined life is not worth living.”

- “I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think”

- “Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.”

- “Strong minds discuss ideas, average minds discuss events, weak minds discuss people.”

- “Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.”

- “To find yourself, think for yourself.”

- “Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a vessel.”

- “He who is not contented with what he has, would not be contented with what he would like to have.”

- “Sometimes you put walls up not to keep people out, but to see who cares enough to break them down.”

- “The secret of happiness, you see, is not found in seeking more, but in developing the capacity to enjoy less.”

- “Know thyself.”

- “Contentment is natural wealth, luxury is artificial poverty.”

- “Employ your time in improving yourself by other men's writings so that you shall come easily by what others have labored hard for.”

- “The only good is knowledge and the only evil is ignorance.”

- “Do not do to others what angers you if done to you by others.”
